A media type (also known as a Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions or MIME type) indicates the nature and format of a document, file, or assortment of bytes. MIME types are defined and standardized in IETF's RFC 6838

A MIME type most-commonly consists of just two parts: a type and a subtype, separated by a slash (/) — with no whitespace between:
type/subtype
The type represents the general category into which the data type falls, such as video or text.

The subtype identifies the exact kind of data of the specified type the MIME type represents. For example, for the MIME type text, the subtype might be plain (plain text), html (HTML source code), or calendar (for iCalendar/.ics) files.

An optional parameter can be added to provide additional details:

type/subtype;parameter=value

For example, for any MIME type whose main type is text, you can add the optional charset parameter to specify the character set used for the characters in the data. If no charset is specified, the default is ASCII (US-ASCII) unless overridden by the user agent's settings. To specify a UTF-8 text file, the MIME type text/plain;charset=UTF-8 is used.

MIME types are case-insensitive but are traditionally written in lowercase. The parameter values can be case-sensitive.

There are two classes of type: discrete and multipart. Discrete types are types which represent a single file or medium, such as a single text or music file, or a single video. A multipart type is one which represents a document that's comprised of multiple component parts, each of which may have its own individual MIME type; or, a multipart type may encapsulate multiple files being sent together in one transaction. For example, multipart MIME types are used when attaching multiple files to an email.

Discrete types
The discrete types currently registered with the IANA are:

application
Any kind of binary data that doesn't fall explicitly into one of the other types; either data that will be executed or interpreted in some way or binary data that requires a specific application or category of application to use. Generic binary data (or binary data whose true type is unknown) is application/octet-stream. Other common examples include application/pdf, application/pkcs8, and application/zip. (Registration at IANA)

audio
Audio or music data. Examples include audio/mpeg, audio/vorbis. (Registration at IANA)

example
Reserved for use as a placeholder in examples showing how to use MIME types. These should never be used outside of sample code listings and documentation. example can also be used as a subtype; for instance, in an example related to working with audio on the web, the MIME type audio/example can be used to indicate that the type is a placeholder and should be replaced with an appropriate one when using the code in the real world.

font
Font/typeface data. Common examples include font/woff, font/ttf, and font/otf. (Registration at IANA)

image
Image or graphical data including both bitmap and vector still images as well as animated versions of still image formats such as animated GIF or APNG. Common examples are image/jpeg, image/png, and image/svg+xml. (Registration at IANA)

model
Model data for a 3D object or scene. Examples include model/3mf and model/vrml. (Registration at IANA)

text
Text-only data including any human-readable content, source code, or textual data such as comma-separated value (CSV) formatted data. Examples include: text/plain, text/csv, and text/html. (Registration at IANA)

video
Video data or files, such as MP4 movies (video/mp4). (Registration at IANA)

For text documents without a specific subtype, text/plain should be used. Similarly, for binary documents without a specific or known subtype, application/octet-stream should be used.

Except for multipart/form-data, used in the POST method of HTML Forms, and multipart/byteranges, used with 206 Partial Content to send part of a document, HTTP doesn't handle multipart documents in a special way: the message is transmitted to the browser (which will likely show a "Save As" window if it doesn't know how to display the document).

There are two multipart types:

message
A message that encapsulates other messages. This can be used, for instance, to represent an email that includes a forwarded message as part of its data, or to allow sending very large messages in chunks as if it were multiple messages. Examples include message/rfc822 (for forwarded or replied-to message quoting) and message/partial to allow breaking a large message into smaller ones automatically to be reassembled by the recipient. (Registration at IANA)

multipart
Data that consists of multiple components which may individually have different MIME types. Examples include multipart/form-data (for data produced using the FormData API) and multipart/byteranges (defined in RFC 7233, section 5.4.1 and used with HTTP's 206 "Partial Content" response returned when the fetched data is only part of the content, such as is delivered using the Range header). (Registration at IANA)


Important MIME types for Web developers

